The program in TIMINGSP may be used to test timings of a large number of
instructions on mainframe IBM or plug-compatible computers.  The method
involves cycling through a loop 25,000 times with 11 instructions per
cycle; the overhead for the loop is subtracted.  One may easily modify
the above numeric parameters.  The only macros required are in
SYS1.MACLIB.  Execution time for the program is approx. 0.5 sec. on the
University of South Carolina's 2066-0X2 machine.

The original program is in member TIMINGSO.  It employed 50,000 cycles
per loop with only one instruction per cycle.  That program and its
results are described in the following article, which is reproduced here
in member $ARTICLE:

Richard N. Hevener, "Large System Instruction Timings," "Technical
Support," Vol. 5, No. 8, pp. 14-18, August, 1997.

In Sep., 1999, Jim Melnyk of Great-West Life sent me an e-mail inquiring
about some peculiar results he had obtained using the original program.
He had gotten negative times for certain instructions on a 9672-RC6.
After several attempts, I was able to modify the program to achieve
reasonable timings on both that machine and a 9672-R55 that Jim later
discovered also produced spurious results.  He also tested on a
9672-R24, obtaining output consistent with the original program, as I
did on U.S.C.'s 9672-R53.  I would like to acknowledge Jim's assistance
in testing various versions of the program on his three machines.  I
would also like to thank him for suggesting that I employ a loop macro
to facilitate changes.

In Aug., 2002, Charlie Hottel of the Washington, D.C., area raised some
questions about the rather complicated computational shifting in the
program.  Thanks to Charlie for suggesting a revision (and slight
simplification) to prevent a possible 0C9.

My contact information may be found near the beginning of TIMINGSP.

Rick Hevener (retired, formerly of University of South Carolina)
Columbia, S.C.
2005-04-27
